Imam Ahmad said (in his Musnad) > Abu Ahmad > Abdullah ibn Al-Waleed Al-Ijili > Hasan > Bakeer ibn Shihab > Sa'eed ibn Jubair > Ibn Abbas (RA) that he said: 

The Jews came to the Messenger of Allah (SAW) and said "O Abul-Qasim, we will ask you about five things, and if you tell us about them we will know you are a prophet," so he took from them what Israil took from his sons when they said 'Allah is the manager over what we say.'

He said, "Bring them."

They said, "Tell us about a sign of a prophet."

He said, "His eyes sleep, but his heart does not sleep."

They said, "Tell us how a female is made and how a male is made."

He said, "The two waters meet. Then, when the water of the man prevails the water of the woman, it is a male. And when the water of the woman prevails the water of the man, it is a female."

They said, "Tell us what Israil forbade to himself."

He said, "He had a certain sickness for a long time and he found no food suitable for him except the milk of this and this." [...]

They said, "You have said the truth. Tell us what is this thunder."

He said, "An angel from the angels of Allah who controls the clouds with his hands or he has a piece of fire and he drives the clouds wherever Allah wills."

They said, "Then, what is this sound one hears?"

He said, "It is a sound due to him."

They said, "You have said the truth. Only one is left and we will pledge allegiance to you if you inform us about it. Indeed, there is no prophet except that he has an angel that comes to him with news so tell us who is your companion."

He said, "Jibril."

They said, "Jibril? He is the one who comes down with war, death, and punishment, our enemy. If only you had said Mikail who comes down with mercy, vegetation, and rain, it would have been (good)."

So, Allah revealed: Say, "Whoever is an enemy to Gabriel...
Al-Haithami said in Majma' Az-Zawaid: Imam Ahmad and At-Tabarani narrated it and its narrators are strong and Abu Naeem has narrated it in Al-Hilyah. The hadith has in its chain Bakeer ibn Shihab. The Hafiz said in At-Taqreeb he is accepted meaning when he is followed (by others in what he said) and otherwise he is weak. However, this hadith has several paths to Ibn Abbas (RA) as recorded in Tafsir At-Tabari and from those (multiple paths) are those of Imam Ahmad, At-Tayalisi, Ibn Jarir, and Ibn Sa'd from the path of Shahr ibn Haushab > Ibn Abbas similar to it.

Ibn Jarir has claimed an Ijmaa that this verse was revealed as a response to the Jews of Bani Israel when they said Jibril (AS) was an enemy to them and Mikail was a friend to them. So, this Ijmaa is additional support for these two paths and whatever weakness may be in them (the weakness of the first being Bakeer ibn Shihab [...] and the weakness of the second being due to discussion regarding Shahr.)